# Overview

Economies turn. Governments worldwide face the pressing demands of market changes, currency swings, and uncertain outcomes in financial markets. In the early 00’s the US housing market seemed to yield only positive returns, but even though trillions of dollars in mortgages were securitized and considered AAA rated, entire generations lost both their future and their past one tragic autumn in 2008. Inside the US Baby Boomers approaching retirement lost their savings, household spending dropped, business production slumped, and Millennials entered one of the most challenging job markets the US economy has seen since the early 80’s, leaving them the first US generation to expect lower financial earnings than their parents. Outside the US, the European debt crisis triggered an already unstable experiment of political and monetary union without fiscal oversight. Greece almost left the European Union, a surprising British politician successfully pushed his country out of favor with its most important trading partner, and Sterling hit the lowest levels it’s seen for 30 years. What are the implications of these international financial events for policy leaders? How can systemic financial risk be understood as contributing to, deriving from, and interacting with worldwide markets? How can data on these markets be better integrated, analyzed, visualized and explained to provide both foundational and cutting-edge insights at the exact moment they are required?

	We propose a unified online tool for use by policy professionals, economists, journalists, and students of systemic financial risk in all countries. Our tool will be unique in three aspects. First, by using recent advances within big data engineering we will be able to integrate and index massive amounts of data from disparate sources. We plan to make all of this data freely available through an API. Second, our tool will be designed for use by economists and policy professionals to accommodate both a high level of analysis and ease of interpretability towards the question of systemic risk. Third, because we value insights from both classic econometrics and the most recent advances within machine learning and artificial intelligence, all of the data will be easy to integrate with a wide variety of algorithms and experimental environments. Finally, we would like to work with experts in data visualization to render the results of this important analysis easy to understand and apply immediately in a policy setting. Our goal is to reduce systemic risk in financial markets by providing systematic insights.

